CS4375 Assignment 2
<FULL_GITHUB_REPOSITORY_URL>
Full Name
Net ID

TODO: Fill in your name and details above. If not filled correctly, we will subtract 2pt.
TODO: It is highly suggested to use the template for reports. You are free to use other softwares
(e.g. Microsoft Word, Google Doc), but we prefer you follow the structure below.

1 Introduction and Data (5pt)
TODO: Briefly describe the project and your main experiments and results, including mentioning
the data you use.

TODO: Briefly describe task and data (e.g. how many examples are in the training, develop- ment,

and test sets.), it is best to report all the statistics, including counts, in a table.

2 Implementations (45pt)
2.1 FFNN (20pt)
TODO: Explain briefly how you implemented filled in the incomplete code for FFNN.py in the
form of screenshot (and explanations) in the report. Provide any other libraries/tools that are used; Try to
understand what other part of the code is doing, and write your understandings here (e.g. optimizers,
initializations, stopping, etc.)
2.2 RNN (25pt)
TODO: Explain briefly how you implemented filled in the incomplete code for RNN.py in the

form of code-snippet screenshot (and explanations) in the report. Try to understand what other part of the
code is doing, and write your understandings here (especially parts that is functioning differently as
compared to FFNN).

3 Experiments and Results (45pt)
3.1 Evaluations (15pt)
TODO: Explain how you evaluate the models. What metric is used – you can refer to the current
implementation.

3.2 Results (30pt)
TODO: Apart from the default hyperparameters, try multiple variations (be- tween 1-2 for FFNN

and RNN each) of models by changing hidden unit sizes.

TODO: Summarize the performance of your system and Put the results into tables or diagrams

and include your observations and analysis.

4 Analysis (bonus: 10pt)
TODO: Plot the learning curve of your best system. The curve should include the training loss
and development set accuracy by epoch. (5pt)

TODO: Error analysis. List some (one or more than one) error examples and provide some

analysis. How might you improve the system? (5pt)

5 Conclusion and Others (5pt)
TODO: Individual member contribution.

TODO: Feedback for the assignment. e.g., time spent, difficulty, and how we can improve.

